---
title: New Look
date: 2006-08-15T01:05:01+00:00
author: captain
layout: post
permalink: /2006/new-paint/
categories:
  - Technical
---

This spring/summer we performed two major jobs (mostly cosmetic but practical as
well) on Plume.

{% responsive_image path: assets/media/imgs/2008/04/7260578.jpg alt: "At dock with new colors" %}

First, we finally varnished the cap rail and rub rail. We already had done the
rub-rail one time before, but it had been a failure due to a bad varnish. So the
teak wood had been left bare for most of Plume’s life. In fact we (specially
Lorenzo!) like the appearance and touch of the grey teak, but we thought that
the wood would resist longer with a proper protection. After many other
experiments we finally found a system that works well for us and seems to last
long without re-varnishing every six months. It is a dual process with 1
impregnation + 3 coats of epoxy (West System) followed by 3-5 + 1 final coats of
a two part urethane (Bristol Finish). This is a considerable job but the benefit
is less maintenance afterwards.

Secondly, we had the Plume’s topsides repainted by a boat yard. The original
gelcoat was showing signs of oxidation. This is probably due to a lack of
maintenance from our part (our experience with a varnished plywood/epoxy hull
made us thought that fiberglass was maintenance free!). Anyway, it was time for
a refresh and since we could choose any color we wanted, we decided to reverse
Plume’s original colors. This was a tough decision because we loved our Blue
Boat. However, we are hoping that a light color will last longer and generate
less heat inside the boat if we go farther south. The boat yard did an excellent
job and Plume has now beautiful cream topsides with a navy stripe. They used a linear polyurethane (AWLGRIP) that is
supposed to last much longer than gelcoat and require less maintenance as well.

We are delighted with our fresh Plume, and even start to be accustomed to see
her in her new dress!
