---
title: Lighting
date: 2020-08-20T21:12:20+00:00
author: cecile
layout: post
permalink: /2020/lighting/
categories:
  - Cruising
---
Last Saturday afternoon, we took a last-minute decision to take Plume out for a
relaxing night at the anchorage. Ignoring the severe thunderstorm warning (who
pays attention to thunderstorms in the San Francisco Bay area?), we left the
marina at 6:00pm and were anchored at Friday Anchorage by 7:30pm. The evening
was warm and beautiful and we enjoyed a lovely dinner in the cockpit.

By the end of the evening, clouds started to accumulate nearby. In the middle of
the night, we were woken-up by rain, thunderstorms, and strong winds. Nothing
too serious so far as we trust our Spade anchor. But then, the lighting started.
Soon, dozens of lighting events were surrounding the boat. We did not take the
bottom picture below (by Kent Porter), but this is exactly how it looked like.

Not only were we worried about us on the boat, but also about the rest of the
family left at home: We had a nice view of the hills where we live from the
anchorage, and the lighting was very intense there as well. The mix of lightning
and strong winds created the perfect conditions for a wildfire; a serious threat
for us who live at the edge of an open space.

So we ended-up awake most of the night, trying to stay away from the compression
post, making sure the anchor was not dragging (it did not) and getting news from
home. So much for a relaxing night at the anchorage!

While everything turned out fine for us (both at sea and on land) it was just
the beginning of the nightmare for so many people who turned out to be impacted
by the wildfires that started across Northern California on that very night. But
we learned our lesson: Never again will we ignore a severe thunderstorm warning!


{% responsive_image path: assets/media/imgs/2020/FridayAnchorage.jpg alt: "Peaceful evening at Friday Anchorage" %}
{% responsive_image path: assets/media/imgs/2020/Lightning.jpg alt: "Lightning (by Kent Porter)" %}