---
title: 2024 Haulout
date: 2024-09-30T12:00:00+00:00
author: cecile
layout: post
permalink: /2024/haulout/
categories:
  - Technical
---

This year Plume was hauled out at Svendsen’s Bay Marine in Richmond, California.
While the primary task was some fresh coats of bottom paint, we also took the
opportunity to tackle maintenance and upgrades: replacing the engine intake
seacock (Plume's last original seacock and hence a potential failure point),
fitting a new prop, and servicing our Monitor windvane.

We have been using a 2-blade CDI plastic 14x10 prop until now. We were extremely
satisfied with its performance and never had any issue with it. In addition, its
price point does not prevent you to carry a spare (which we did). However, when
production was discontinued, we switched to a more traditional option: a 2-blade
Michigan bronze 13x12.

We measured boat performance before and after the prop change by recording GPS
speeds over ground at different RPMs, running reciprocal courses in the channel
in front of the boatyard to discount for current (see table below). The new prop
performed slightly better at low rpm, but the difference was not significant.
Regarding other factors like hull cleanliness, and not counting the load on the
engine (consumption), it is not possible to draw a clear conclusion (beside our
new prop is more shiny;-).

{% picture 2024/haulout.jpg --alt back to the water --img class="img-small"%}
<p style="text-align: center; font-style: italic;">
  To the water with new bottom paint, seacock, and prop
</p>

{% picture 2024/prop.jpg --alt 2-blade Michigan bronze 13x12 --img class="img-small"%}
<p style="text-align: center; font-style: italic;">
  2-blade Michigan bronze 13x12
</p>

{% picture 2024/windvane.jpg --alt windvane back after servicing --img class="img-small"%}
<p style="text-align: center; font-style: italic;">
  Mounting the Monitor  windvane back after servicing
</p>
<br>

| RPM  | Old Up | Old Down | Old Avg | New Up | New Down | New Avg | % Change |
|------|--------|----------|---------|--------|----------|---------|----------|
| 1600 | 3.55   | 3.15     | 3.35    | 3.85   | 3.10     | 3.48    | +3.7%    |
| 2000 | 4.60   | 4.20     | 4.40    | 4.70   | 4.15     | 4.43    | +0.6%    |
| 2400 | 5.18   | 5.04     | 5.11    | 5.40   | 4.85     | 5.13    | +0.3%    |
| 2800 | 5.65   | 5.55     | 5.60    | 5.85   | 5.45     | 5.65    | +0.9%    |

<p style="text-align: center; font-style: italic;">
  Old CDI and new Michigan props SOG for different RPMs
</p>